Copied current Vue tutorial for auth0.js to the repo readme (QS-313) (#87)
auth0-samples/auth0-vue-samples: 01-Login/README.md

> ---

Reviewer: This YAML block can be left out entirely, as it doesn't have any meaning outside of Docs.

title: Login
description: This tutorial demonstrates how to add user login to a Vue.JS application using Auth0.
budicon: 448
topics:
  - quickstarts
  - spa
  - vuejs
  - login
github:
  path: 01-Login
contentType: tutorial
useCase: quickstart
---

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD034 MD041 -->

::: note
**New to Auth?** Learn [How Auth0 works](/overview), how it [integrates with Single-Page Applications](/architecture-scenarios/application/spa-api) and which [protocol](/flows/concepts/implicit) it uses.
:::

## Configure Auth0
### Get Your Application Keys

When you signed up for Auth0, a new application was created for you, or you could have created a new one.

> You will need some details about that application to communicate with Auth0. You can get these details from the [Application Settings](${manage_url}/#/applications/${account.clientId}/settings) section in the Auth0 dashboard.

Reviewer: > [Application Settings](${manage_url}/#/applications/${account.clientId}/settings)

Substitutions like `${manage_url}` and `${account.clientid}` don't mean anything in GitHub, they only work on the docs site. These will need converted to actual links or the sentence rewritten so that the link isn't included.

For example, the `manage_url` is https://manage.auth0.com, APIs URL is https://manage.auth0.com/#/apis, etc.

In this case, I think the link will have to be removed and the sentence rewritten, as you won't have access to the client ID to take the reader directly to the application settings. Something like:

 ```suggestion
You will need some details about that application to communicate with Auth0. You can get these details from your SPA app configuration settings in the [Auth0 dashboard](https://manage.auth0.com/#/applications).
```

You need the following information:

* **Domain**
* **Client ID**

::: note
If you download the sample from the top of this page these details are filled out for you.

If you have more than one application in your account, the sample comes with the values for your **Default App**.
:::

### Configure Callback URLs

A callback URL is a URL in your application where Auth0 redirects the user after they have authenticated. 

> The callback URL for your app must be whitelisted in the **Allowed Callback URLs** field in your [Application Settings](${manage_url}/#/applications/${account.clientId}/settings). If this field is not set, users will be unable to log in to the application and will get an error.

Reviewer: Link needs removed/rewritten

```suggestion
The callback URL for your app must be whitelisted in the **Allowed Callback URLs** field in your [Application Settings](https://manage.auth0.com/#/applications). If this field is not set, users will be unable to log in to the application and will get an error.
```

> ::: note

Reviewer: Needs converted to blockquote

If you are following along with the sample project you downloaded from the top of this page, you should set the **Allowed Callback URL** to `http://localhost:3000/callback`.
:::

### Configure Logout URLs

A logout URL is a URL in your application that Auth0 can return to after the user has been logged out of the authorization server. This is specified in the `returnTo` query parameter.

> The logout URL for your app must be whitelisted in the **Allowed Logout URLs** field in your [Application Settings](${manage_url}/#/applications/${account.clientId}/settings). If this field is not set, users will be unable to log out from the application and will get an error.

Reviewer: Link needs removed/rewritten

```suggestion
The logout URL for your app must be whitelisted in the **Allowed Logout URLs** field in your [Application Settings](https://manage.auth0.com/#/applications). If this field is not set, users will be unable to log out from the application and will get an error.
```

> ::: note

Reviewer: Needs converted to blockquote

If you are following along with the sample project you downloaded from the top of this page, the logout URL you need to whitelist in the **Allowed Logout URLs** field is `http://localhost:3000`.
:::

### Configure Allowed Web Origins

> You need to whitelist the URL for your app in the **Allowed Web Origins** field in your [Application Settings](${manage_url}/#/applications/${account.clientId}/settings). If you don't whitelist your application URL, the application will be unable to automatically refresh the authentication tokens and your users will be logged out the next time they visit the application, or refresh the page.

Reviewer: Link needs removed/rewritten

```suggestion
You need to whitelist the URL for your app in the **Allowed Web Origins** field in your [Application Settings](https://manage.auth0.com/#/applications). If you don't whitelist your application URL, the application will be unable to automatically refresh the authentication tokens and your users will be logged out the next time they visit the application, or refresh the page.
```

> ::: note

Reviewer: Needs converted to blockquote

If you are following along with the sample project you downloaded from the top of this page, you should set the **Allowed Web Origins** to `http://localhost:3000`.
:::

## Integrate Auth0 in your Application

### Loading auth0.js

You need the auth0.js library to integrate Auth0 into your application.
You can either install the library locally in your application or load it from CDN.

### Loading via dependencies

Install auth0.js using npm or yarn.

```bash
# installation with npm
npm install --save auth0-js

# installation with yarn
yarn add auth0-js
```

Once you install auth0.js, add it to your build system or bring it in to your project with a script tag.

```html
<script type="text/javascript" src="node_modules/auth0-js/build/auth0.js"></script>
```

### Loading it from CDN
 
If you do not want to use a package manager, you can retrieve auth0.js from Auth0's CDN.

```html

> <script src="${auth0js_url}"></script>

Reviewer: This will need to be replaced with the actual CDN url, as the `auth0js_url` variable doesn't mean anything in GitHub.

```

### Authentication with Auth0

> [Universal Login](/hosted-pages/login) is the easiest way to set up authentication in your application. We recommend using it for the best experience, best security and the fullest array of features. This guide will use it to provide a way for your users to log in to your ${library} application.

Reviewer: > [Universal Login](/hosted-pages/login)

This will need to be replaced with the fully-qualified URL for the login page documentation; the relative link here won't work.

> ${library}

`library` is a docs variable and doesn't mean anything in GitHubland. I'd just remove it.

> ::: note

Reviewer: Needs replaced by a blockquote.

You can also embed the login dialog directly in your application using the [Lock widget](/lock). If you use this method, some features, such as single sign-on, will not be accessible. 

> <% if (typeof embeddedLoginLink == 'string') { %>

Reviewer: This `if` construct is a docs/liquid thing and doesn't mean anything in GitHub. I would just remove it, along with the following two lines so that the information about embedded login is removed entirely.

To learn how to embed the Lock widget in your application, follow the [Embedded Login sample](${embeddedLoginLink}).
<% } %>
:::

When a user logs in, Auth0 returns three items:

> * `access_token`: to learn more, see the [Access Token documentation](/tokens/access-tokens)

Reviewer: Relative links need to be replaced by absolute URLs

> * `id_token`: to learn more, see the [ID Token documentation](/tokens/id-tokens)

Reviewer: Relative links need to be replaced by absolute URLs

* `expires_in`: the number of seconds before the Access Token expires

You can use these items in your application to set up and manage authentication. 

### Create an Authentication Service

The best way to manage and coordinate the tasks necessary for user authentication is to create a reusable service. With the service in place, you will be able to call its methods throughout your application. The name for it is at your discretion, but in these examples it will be called `AuthService` and the filename will be `authService.js`. An instance of the `WebAuth` object from **auth0.js** can be created in the service.

Create a service and instantiate `auth0.WebAuth`. Provide a method called `login` which calls the `authorize` method from auth0.js.

```js
// src/auth/authService.js

import auth0 from 'auth0-js';
import EventEmitter from 'events';
import authConfig from '../../auth_config.json';

const webAuth = new auth0.WebAuth({
  domain: authConfig.domain,

>   redirectUri: `<%= "${window.location.origin}" %>/callback`,

Reviewer: The `<%=` escape characters are a docs thing and would be rendered out in GitHub, so these should be removed.

This line would become:

```suggestion
  redirectUri: `${window.location.origin}/callback`,
```

  clientID: authConfig.clientId,
  responseType: 'id_token',
  scope: 'openid profile email'
});

class AuthService extends EventEmitter {

  // Starts the user login flow
  login(customState) {
    webAuth.authorize({
      appState: customState
    });
  }

}

export default new AuthService();
```

> :::note

Reviewer: Needs replaced by a blockquote

The `login` method has been setup to support specifing custom state that will be returned to the application after authentication. This will come into play later when you start adding protected routes.
:::

To provide the values for `clientID`, `callbackUrl`, and `domain`, create a new file `auth_config.json` in the root directory of the application alongside your `package.json` file, and populate it with your tenant values:

```json
{

>   "domain": "${account.namespace}",

Reviewer: These variables don't mean anything in GitHub. I would revert these lines to the previous version, so that the JSON example looks like this:

```json
{
  "domain": "<YOUR AUTH0 DOMAIN>",
  "clientId": "<YOUR AUTH0 CLIENT ID>"
}
```

  "clientId": "${account.clientId}"
}
```

> ::: note

Reviewer: Needs replaced with a blockquote

**Checkpoint:** Try calling the `login` method from somewhere in your application. This could be from a button click or in some lifecycle event; just something that will trigger the method so you can see the login page.
:::

> ![hosted login](/media/articles/web/hosted-login.png)

Reviewer: Needs an absolute URL here

- `handleCallback` - looks for an authentication result in the URL hash and processes it with the `parseHash` method from auth0.js
- `localLogin` - sets the user's ID Token, and a time at which the ID Token will expire. The expiry time is converted to milliseconds so that the native JavaScript `Date` object can be used
- `renewTokens` - uses the `checkSession` method from auth0.js to renew the user's authentication status, and calls `localLogin` if the login session is still valid
- `logout` - removes the user's tokens from memory. It also calls `webAuth.logout` to log the user out at the authorization server
- `isAuthenticated` - checks whether the local storage flag is present and equals "true", and that the expiry time for the ID Token has passed

### About the Authentication Service

When you set up the `AuthService` service, you create an instance of the `auth0.WebAuth` object. In that instance, you can define the following:

* Configuration for your application and domain
* Response type, to show that you need a user's ID Token after authentication
* The URL where you want to redirect your users after authentication.

> ::: note

Reviewer: Needs replaced by a blockquote

> In this tutorial, the route is `/callback`, which is implemented in the [Add a Callback Component](#add-a-callback-component) step. 

Reviewer: Can you check that these anchor links work when the readme is rendered out in HTML?

```js
// src/plugins/auth.js

import authService from '../auth/authService';

export default {
  install(Vue) {
    Vue.prototype.$auth = authService;

    Vue.mixin({
      created() {
        if (this.handleLoginEvent) {
          authService.addListener('loginEvent', this.handleLoginEvent);
        }
      },

      destroyed() {
        if (this.handleLoginEvent) {
          authService.removeListener('loginEvent', this.handleLoginEvent);
        }
      }
    });
  }
};
```

This plugin provides access to the `AuthService` class from each component, through the `this.$auth` property. It also provides a mechanism for when the login state changes, for components that implement a `handleLoginEvent` method.

Open `main.js` and install the plugin:

```js
// src/main.js

import Vue from "vue";
import App from "./App.vue";

// Import the plugin here
import AuthPlugin from "./plugins/auth";

// Install the authentication plugin here
Vue.use(AuthPlugin);

Vue.config.productionTip = false;

new Vue({
  router,
  render: h => h(App)
}).$mount("#app");

```

### Provide a Login Control

Provide a component with controls for the user to log in and log out.

> ::: note

Reviewer: Needs replaced with a blockquote

        <li v-if="isAuthenticated">
          <a href="#" @click.prevent="logout">Log out</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
  </nav>

    <div>
      <router-view></router-view>
    </div>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  name: "app",
  data() {
    return {
      isAuthenticated: false
    };
  },
  async created() {
    try {
      await this.$auth.renewTokens();
    } catch (e) {
      console.log(e);
    }
  },
  methods: {
    login() {
      this.$auth.login();
    },
    logout() {
      this.$auth.logOut();
    },
    handleLoginEvent(data) {
      this.isAuthenticated = data.loggedIn;
      this.profile = data.profile;
    }
  }
};
</script>
```

The `@click` events on the **Log In** and **Log Out** buttons make the appropriate calls to the `AuthService` to allow the user to log in and log out. Notice that these buttons are conditionally hidden and shown depending on whether or not the user is currently authenticated.

Also notice the use of `this.$auth` to access the `AuthService` instance. Login events can be handled by providing a `handleLoginEvent` method on any component.

When the **Log In** button is clicked, the user will be redirected to login page.

> ::: note

Reviewer: Needs replaced with a blockquote

> The login page uses the Lock widget. To learn more about Universal Login and the login page, see the [Universal Login documentation](/hosted-pages/login). To customize the look and feel of the Lock widget, see the [Lock customization options documentation](/libraries/lock/v10/customization).

Reviewer: Needs absolute URLs in this paragraph.

Install `vue-router` to allow callbacks to be routed properly to the `Callback` component:

```bash
npm install vue-router
```

Create a component named `Callback` and populate it with a loading indicator. The component should also call `handleAuthentication` from the `AuthService`.

```js
<!-- src/components/Callback.vue -->

<template>
  <div>
    <p>Loading...</p>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  methods: {
    handleLoginEvent(data) {
      this.$router.push(data.state.target || "/");
    }
  },
  created() {
    this.$auth.handleAuthentication();
  }
};
</script>
```

Add a new file `router.js` inside the `src` folder with the following content:

```js
// src/router.js

import Vue from 'vue';
import Router from 'vue-router';
import Callback from './components/Callback';

Vue.use(Router);

const routes = [
  {
    path: '/callback',
    name: 'callback',
    component: Callback
  }
];

const router = new Router({
  mode: 'history',
  routes
});

export default router;
```

> ::: note

Reviewer: Blockquote needed

Open `router.js` and add a rule that exhibits this behavior:

```js
// src/router.js

// .. other imports
import auth from "./auth/authService";

// .. routes list

// Existing router declaration
const router = new Router({
  mode: 'history',
  routes
});

// NEW - add a `beforeEach` handler to each route
router.beforeEach((to, from, next) => {
  if (to.path === "/" || to.path === "/callback" || auth.isAuthenticated()) {
    return next();
  }

  // Specify the current path as the customState parameter, meaning it
  // will be returned to the application after auth
  auth.login({ target: to.path });
});

// Existing export
export default router;
```

Given this, any page that is not either the home page or the callback URL will cause the application to show the login prompt if the user is not authenticated.

## See it in action

Install the dependencies, start your app and point your browser to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000). Follow the **Log In** link to log in or sign up to your Auth0 tenant. Upon successful login or signup, you should be redirected to the user's profile page.

> ![login page](/media/articles/web/hosted-login.png)

Reviewer: The image for this will need copied into the repo and linked to.

To run the sample follow these steps:

> 1) Set the **Callback URL** in the [Application Settings](${manage_url}/#/applications/${account.clientId}/settings) to

Reviewer: Absolute URLs for Manage needed here

```text
http://localhost:3000/callback
```

> 2) Set **Allowed Web Origins** in the [Application Settings](${manage_url}/#/applications/${account.clientId}/settings) to

Reviewer: Absolute URLs for Manage needed here

```text
http://localhost:3000
```

> 3) Set **Allowed Logout URLs** in the [Application Settings](${manage_url}/#/applications/${account.clientId}/settings) to 

Reviewer: Absolute URLs for Manage needed here
